docs(): add virtual scroll docs (#1406)
ionic-team/ionic-docs: src/pages/angular/virtual-scroll.md

---

> title: 'Virtual Scroll in Angular'

Reviewer: Should this just be `Virtual Scroll` since we're already in the Angular section?

---

> In previous versions of Ionic, there had been a `virtual-scroll` directive to help with list virtualization. But as of recent, Angular provides it's own solution with the `@angular/cdk` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, we have provided an `ion-virtual-scroll` component in Ionic Framework to help with list virtualization. At the time this was not available in Angular, but recently Angular has provided its own solution via the `@angular/cdk` package.
```

> ## Install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

Maybe call this setup? I'm thinking for other frameworks there may not be an "Install" option

> To install the CDK Scroller, first install `@angular/cdk`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup the CDK Scroller, first install `@angular/cdk`:
```

```shell
npm add @angular/cdk
```

This provides a collection of different utilities, but we'll focus on `ScrollingModule` for now.

When we want to use the CDK Scroller, we'll need to import the module in our component. For example, in a tabs starter project, we can add our import to the `tabs1.module.ts` file.

```diff
  import { IonicModule } from '@ionic/angular';
  import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
  import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';
  import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
  import { Tab1Page } from './tab1.page';
  import { ExploreContainerComponentModule } from '../explore-container/explore-container.module';
+ import { ScrollingModule } from '@angular/cdk/scrolling'
  import { Tab1PageRoutingModule } from './tab1-routing.module';

  @NgModule({
    imports: [
      IonicModule,
      CommonModule,
      FormsModule,
      ExploreContainerComponentModule,
      Tab1PageRoutingModule,
+     ScrollingModule
    ],
    declarations: [Tab1Page]
  })
  export class Tab1PageModule {}
```

With this added, we have access to the Virtual Scroller in the Tab1Page component.

## Usage

> The CDK Virtual Scroller can be added to a component by add the `cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport` to a component's template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CDK Virtual Scroller can be added to a component by adding the `cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport` to a component's template.
```

```html
<ion-content>
  <cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport> </cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport>
</ion-content>
```

`cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport` becomes the root of our scrollable content and is responsible for recycling DOM nodes as they scroll out of view.

The DOM nodes at this point can be any content needed for an app. The difference is that when we want to iterate over a collection, `*cdkVirtualFor` is used instead of `*ngFor`.

```html
<ion-content>
  <cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport>
    <ion-list>
      <ion-item *cdkVirtualFor="let item of items">
        <ion-avatar slot="start">
          <img src="https://loremflickr.com/40/40" />
        </ion-avatar>
        <ion-label>
          {{item }}
        </ion-label>
      </ion-item>
    </ion-list>
  </cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport>
</ion-content>
```

> Here, `items` is an array, but it can be an array, `Observable<Array>`, or `DataSource`. `DataSource` is an abstract class that can provide the data needed as well as utility methods. For more details, checkout the [CDK Virtual Scroller docs](https://material.angular.io/cdk/scrolling/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, `items` is an array, but it can be an array, `Observable<Array>`, or `DataSource`. `DataSource` is an abstract class that can provide the data needed as well as utility methods. For more details, check out the [CDK Virtual Scrolling docs](https://material.angular.io/cdk/scrolling/overview).
```

The component is not complete yet as the `cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport` needs to know how big each node will be as well as the min/max buffer sizes.

At the moment, CDK Virtual Scroller only supports fixed sized elements, but dynamic sized elements are planned for the future. For the `Tab1Page` component, since it is only rendering an item, it can be hard-coded to a fixed size.

The min/max buffer size tells the scroller "render as many nodes as it takes to meet this minimum height, but not over this".

```html
<cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport

>   [itemSize]="56"

Reviewer: Why is itemSize in brackets here?

  minBufferPx="900"
  maxBufferPx="1350"
></cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport>
```

For this case, the `cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport` will render cells at a height 56px until it reaches a height of 900px, but no more at 1350px. These numbers are arbitrary, so be sure to test out what values will work in a real use case.

Putting everything together, the final HTML should look like:

```html
<ion-content>
  <cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport
    [itemSize]="56"
    minBufferPx="900"
    maxBufferPx="1350"
  >
    <ion-list>
      <ion-item *cdkVirtualFor="let item of items">
        <ion-avatar slot="start">
          <img src="https://loremflickr.com/40/40" />
        </ion-avatar>
        <ion-label>
          {{item }}
        </ion-label>
      </ion-item>
    </ion-list>
  </cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport>
</ion-content>
```

## Further Reading

> This only covers a small part of what the CDK Virtual Scroller is capable of. For more details, please see the [docs](https://material.angular.io/cdk/scrolling/overview) on Angular CDK's website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This only covers a small portion of what the CDK Virtual Scroller is capable of. For more details, please see the [Angular CDK Virtual Scrolling docs](https://material.angular.io/cdk/scrolling/overview).
```
